Info
History of English Notes
English had 3 periods, Old, Middle and Modern English.
English is closely related to the Scots and the Frisians.
During the 5th Century AD, the Saxons, Angles, and the Jutes mixed their different Germanic dialects which is now Old English or Anglo-Saxon.
Before the Saxons the language in what was now England was a mixture of Latin and various Celtic languages which were spken before the Romans came to Britain (54-5BC).
The Romans brought Latin to Britain, which was part of the Roman Empire for over 400 years.
The arrival of St. Augustine in 597 and the introduction of Christianity into Saxon England brought more Latin words into the English Language.
Around 878 AD the Danes and Norsemen, also called Vikings, invaded the country and English got many Norse words in the language, particulary in the North of England.
'Beowulf' is a poem most notiable for its length of 3,183 lines. The author is unknown.
After William the Conqueror, the Duke of Normandy, invaded and conquerored England, brought his nobles the French to be the New Government. The Old French language took over as the language of the court, administration and culture.
Latin was mostly used for written language, especially that of the church.
English is now the language of the lower class.
By 1200, England and France split up. English was mostly being spoken then written. Old English came back, but with many french words added. This language is Middle English.
Most of the words embedded in the English vocabulary are words of power.
The Middle English was characterized by the Great Vowel Shift. It was a massive sound change affecting the long vowels of English. The Great Vowel Shift occured during the 15th to the 18th century.
By the time of Shakespeare's writings (1592-1616), the language had become clearly recognisable as Modern English.
There were 3 big developments in the world at the beginning off Modern English period: the Renaissance, thhe Industrial Revolution, and the British Colonialism.
It was during the English Renaaissance that most words from Greek and Latin entered English. This period in English cultural history (Early 16th Century - early 17th Century) is sometimes reffered as "the age of Shakespeare" or "The Elizabethan Era".
England began the Industrial Revolution (18th Century) and this had also an effect on the development of the language as new words had to be invented or existing ones modified to cope with the rapid changes in technology.
Britain was an Empire for 200 years between the 18th and 20th centuries and English language continued to change as the British Empire moved across the world - to the USA, Australia, New Zealand, India, Asia and Africa. They sent people to settle and live in their conquered places and as settlers interacted with natives, new words were added to the English vocabulary. 
